suppose  you went to a public
the  dangers of
at  the beginning of the lecture
a  man stood on stage and held up a deck of
of  card
ruined  my career
led  to my banker
broke  up my man
she  said
the  danger
inherent
in  this deck of a
sort  of poetic
might  accept
we  understand why dramatically
standing  on a
holding  up a deck of
and  talking about the entries
and  objectively real danger
but  there is another sense in which we all know that
a
it's  not just sort of technically
sort  of philosophically and ethical
on
danger  is not
inherent
it's  very much
now  likewise if you have a stone
care  of the body
it  may be a crime to say
that  statue to destroy it you know in the society of living
could  be a one year old statue
of  real historical signifie
could  be an officially designated
cultural  heritage relic in the country living in you may be committing a serious
crime  by the
on  the other hand you could buy a piece of stone your
you  could make an identical
people  don't know how easy that is with modern tools
for  some working
i  seen it done you could make a replica
statue  is remarkably quick and
there's  a whole industry an iland of that of
that  really do you know to an amateur's eye look
anyway  let's say for the sake of argument you could buy our own pieces
greet  your own replica of that in
and  then you could smash it
and  in our world extrinsically that wouldn't be a crime that wouldn't be seen as
parminter  destroying anything
on  a palpable level atom by atom molecule by molecule
what  you're doing is very much
robin  with more realism
or  believing in objectively
objectively  real morality existing in the universe
that  always relies on
this  kind of paradox
paradoxes  almost by their nature can be poetic and a vocative and
they  can work in a sort of dramatic and theatrical content
philosophically  ethically and an in practise in our lives they really
don't
there's  a much younger you tube or named
he  made a music video about me before he made a rap on
he  have known each other in the agora couple of years as a young guy i think he's
if  he makes videos in which he seriously question
philosophically  his own direction
he  recently went from one extreme to the opposite
from  arguing for moral subjectivism against realism and now he switched
over  to the opposite
and  arguing for morality
so  in his argument the first two or three steps are correct
once  the pities its good is that he moves from talking about objective versus
subject
talking  about intrinsic versus extrinsic this is correct this is a good step
you  need to take in this discussion even if you're just talking through this problem with your
sitting  in front of the mere
the  difficulty with talking about morality in terms of objectivity versus subject
that  we tend to come to a dead end
come  to a halt in the process of reason
where  were merely questioning
the
moral  value any particular moral
this  something that all humanity would agree
that's  never true because some people are
so  then you get into a sort of really useless discussion of well
would  any reasonable and rational person are upon this mortal is there a
consensus  gentium is there a consensus agreement of all humanity
this  particular moral value or this moral conclusion is beneficial and reasonable and good
so  it is a complete that end because ultimately of your doing is trying to mask the extent
to  which your claim is logically
every  one who agrees with
would  agree with
mason  a one thousand year old stone statue of the
is  that morally good and morally bad
there  are muslim fundamental
millions  and millions of
who  would regard destroying a statue of the buddha as morally
now  why the members of a religion that preaches and icons
anton  is there against the worshiping
there  were against the worshipping of graven images i am not muslim i am a nihilistic
the
but  nevertheless i can kind of sympathize with the reasoning
of  islamic fundamentalist
they  don't think human beings should be
magical  graven images magical painting
i  think there is an interesting sort of challenge to that habit of mind in
so  there are many muslim fundamental as who would say it's a good thing
to  smash and destroy the
believe  it or not sir i was a scholar of what is in for about ten years of my life
there  is actually a school of philosophy a school thought with the egotism that is also
opposed  to images
so  there is no way if you question this issue
of  objective morality
and  you only speak in terms of objective versus subject if you will tend to get bogged down
and  you will tend to come up against the limit of just trying to argue that every reasonable
person  would agree with you that something is not you're not really arguing that something is
objectively  real
you're  merely arguing
subjective
how  you
so  so evident
the  majority of people or to the torrent of people
that  it might as well be
and  that's not articulate reality right even
ninety  nine per cent of humanity agrees that measuring
weight  in kilograms is a good way to measure wit
doesn't  make the kilogram objectively real
the  pilgrim is still a human created subjective projection
it's  a cultural concept that we may all participate
and
is  objectively real
how  we measure weigh
subject
how  we value
how  we ascribe a value to wait and we say this statue of the buddha
was  fifty children
a  subjective you can it doesn't matter it doesn't matter if percent of humanity
if  we have consensus gentium if they all agree that the kilogram is a good way to measure
and  it doesn't matter if it's ninety nine point nine per cent
if  there is just one insane for this reason it actually doesn't matter if you carry out
a  kind of horrible
established  here in which you persecuted and killed every one who didn't agree
with  the killer ram
the  standard weight and measure for all you hiven if percent of people agree with that
we're  only talking about objective versus subjective and consensus of values were
not  talking about objective reality of values
so  she takes a correct first
in  moving forward from objective or subjective to talk about intrinsic
for
already  disclosed
value  of weight it
intrinsic
so  if we have two statues of the buddha were talking about something intrinsic when
we  say this statue was more than the other statute what does it mean to say that it's
intent
it  means that the existence of this value or the existence of this fact or this thing
does  not rely on my perception of
not  a value i ascribed to it as a human being
and  again were talking but one person my perception that i perceived this as being fifty kilograms by
way  this and measure it
and  assign this valley to it but it is doesn't change if we talk about fifty people a hundred people
ten  thousand people a million people
between  something actually being inherent
in  the object itself in the fabric of reality itself
this  thing prior to discreet from with no contact with my values my
perception
as  opposed to a rising from the human evaluation of
so  i met feel these two statues in my hand
i  can perceive the objective reality the intrinsic reality than
heavier  than the other but then i'm actually engaged in quite culturally
in  historically complex process if i wait and ascribe the value of fifty kilograms
if  you didn't know gus the measurement of kilogram that standardized system
was  created by the french revolts
i  kilograms and kilometers
really  very very strange political history of how scientists were brought together in
a  conclave by the revolutionaries
and  greater system with
because  they want to get rid of the legacy
futile  wait
sometimes  were linked to something
the  size of the foot
to  get rid of
of  medieval history in train
surely  rational
measure  the idea of what's rational is a very peculiar how did they decide the length of
a  meter you can look into this interesting story but
human  create value these are things we ascribe now
this  is a real story if you talk to people who are involved in museum
art  and antiquity
in  these days in countries like tails
they  will have stories of
ancient  relics
so  on the basis of their weight because the people who dug them up people
who  are to readers
a  white tie as may be they stole them from his ms with most cases they dug them up
historical
they  don't know how to evaluate two statues
this  statue is five hundred years older than this
so  therefore this statue is worth more
there  are there are kind of these illegal markets
all  statutes the but
and  sometimes the price is based on the height of the statue sometimes on the weight
the  criminals i'm sorry it is a criminal trade and i think that one sole but the criminals involved in this
trade  they themselves have no way to evaluate what this statue is worth
on  the art market they can't evaluate it aesthetically historically having been in
the  history of the religion and what had you so where they are using if you like
more  entrancement
i  observe but this princess got kind of interesting
parallel  to the problem with moral realism
problem  with more realism is that you're trying to drag
fear  of human created values they are ultimately not just relative
to  a culture but the relative to the act of
subjective  person
seeing  and describing things but would ultimately at all emerges in an historical context from a culture also
even  like the measurement
you're  trying to drag something from this
highly  subjective cultural realm into the realm of intrinsically
real  objectively real
so  in the same way that it's absurd and even hilarious to say the value of
this  work of art can be measured in its
or  the number of centimeters of height it has we can like charge a price
in  the same way it's absurd to say that you're ever going to discover
difference  between right and wrong the difference between good and evil but looking
at  the realm of objectively real intrinsic
in  fact
good  and evil can never exist independent more perception of
projection  of
ascription  of them or judgment of them are debates about them as mere human beings
in  the same sense that the value of the statue of the buddha
can  never exist independent
someone  who was a muslim fundamentalist may see it as morally good and right to
smash  this but estate
to  value it at zero or to have a positive value ascribed to its destruction
some  one who is not a buddhist at all someone is an atheist out cares about
history  the history of civilization history of culture they may think this statue is worth
a  million dollars or two million dollars or what have you some one who values it in the art market and
in  a sense a buddhist monk who wants to keep it in his temple and not pay any price
for  it doesn't want it to be traded on the free market he values it in a different way religiously or culture
or  what have
you  will search in vain
for  an objectively real
twas
criteria
proves  the muslim fundament was is
and  that the buddhist monk is
or  that proves that the muslim fundamental it is wrong and that the
this  homely cares about the value of
you  will never find that
i
intrinsic  matter of the statue the way that you can find weight
the  bare fact of one thing being heavier than another intrinsically objectively
existing  in the statue independent from our perception of it are our debates surrounding it
are  culture
because  you're looking in the wrong
you  are looking in the stones
something  that can only ever arise from
human  heart and the human mind
you  can't judge
statue
can  judge the man
you  could then
you  can judge the motivations of that muslim fundamentalist in smashing
the  state
why  are you doing this you could ask what kind of person do you want to be what
kind  of world do you want to
and  you can judge though you can judge the atheist separately you can judge their life and their morality
but  you're always in inevitably making a subjective judgment that is relative
to  other human beings and their subjective
and  there at
is  no way to aunt logically create group
for  more
bear
objectively  real
willy
qualities  and values
real